Subj: Release of Medication Order Check Healthcare Application V.1.0  [#49540]
19 Apr 2011 17:23:44 -0500 (EST)  121 lines
From: <VECE.VIRGINIA@FORUM.VA.GOV>  In 'FOIA FILES' basket.   Page 1
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
RELEASE INFORMATION:
We are pleased to announce the release of Medication Order Checks for 
Healthcare Applications (MOCHA) V1.0.   MOCHA V1.0 is the first 
functional release of the Pharmacy Reengineering (PRE) software.  It will 
provide enhanced order checking functionality in the Computerized Patient 
Record System (CPRS) and in the Veterans Health Information Systems and 
Technology Architecture (VistA) Pharmacy packages.  This functionality 
will include providing easy access to Drug Monograph information, 
enhanced drug-drug interaction order checking which displays clinical 
information, and improved drug interaction and duplicate therapy by 
therapeutic classification.  Changes made to the order check display 
sequence will improve efficiency and consistency between Inpatient and 
Outpatient Pharmacy packages.  Several patient safety issues were 
addressed with this release including supporting order checks with 
pre-mix solutions.  The order checks will be accomplished utilizing a 
vendor database, currently First Data Bank.
 
The order check functionality will be released in increments.  The first 
phase, MOCHA V1.0 which is included in this release, will implement the 
enhanced drug-drug interaction, duplicate drug and duplicate therapy 
functionality.  Future increments will implement dosing order check 
functionality.
 
MOCHA V1.0 will be released and implemented in a phased approach.  Sites 
will be guided through the installation by the MOCHA Implementation Team 
through a series of conference calls.  The schedule of calls will be sent 
to each site to be included in each phase of implementation. 
 
 
To see current status and target dates for Sites/VISN/Region please refer 
to the following site:
http://vaww.itfo.portal.va.gov/svcs/itfopmo/pre05/default.aspx 
 
 
The rollout of MOCHA V1.0 will include modifications to the software 
functionality within the Pharmacy Data Management V1.0 Application, 
Inpatient Medications V5.0, Outpatient Pharmacy V7.0 and Computerized 
Patient Record System V28 (CPRS).
 
Instructions for installation are included in the VistA to MOCHA V1.0 
Interface Installation Guide and the MOCHA V1.0 Combined Build 
Installation Guide. 
 
The PRE MOCHA Project Team would like to extend their sincere 
appreciation to the many individuals who contributed to the development 
and testing of this project.  The sites below participated as test sites 
and their dedication and input to the project was invaluable:
 
 BOISE, ID
 CHARLESTON, SC
 KANSAS CITY, MO
 NORTHERN CALIFORNIA HCS, CA
 PALO ALTO HCS, CA
 TUSCALOOSA, AL
 
SOFTWARE AND DOCUMENTATION
 
This release consists of two host files: PSS_1_136.zip, 
PRE_I_3_PHARMACY_BUILD,KID; and two patches PSS*1*117 and PSO*7*375. 
 
The host files below will be retrieved from a specific FTP server as 
instructed by the MOCHA Implementation team:
 
PSS_1_136.zip contains:
        PRE_1_3_INTERFACE BUILD.KID
        PSSPRE_1.0.XML
 
PRE_I_3_PHARMACY_BUILD.KID contains:
        PSO*7*251
        PSJ*5*181
        OR*3*272
 
The patches below will be distributed as standalone patches via FORUM:
        PSS*1*117
        PSO*7*375
 
  
 
SOFTWARE RETRIEVAL: 
Sites will be provided with instructions on software retrieval by the 
MOCHA Implementation Team.
 
DOCUMENTATION:
 
Documentation in Adobe Acrobat format (.PDF files) may be retrieved from 
the specific FTP server as instructed by the MOCHA Implementation Team.
  
Medication Order Check Healthcare Application (MOCHA) V1.0 Release Notes
File name:  PSO_7_PSJ_5_PSS_1_RN.PDF
 
VistA to MOCHA V1.0 Interface Installation Guide
File name:  VISTA_TO_MOCHA_INTERFACE_IG.PDF         
 
Pharmacy Reengineering (PRE) MOCHA V1.0 Combined Build Installation Guide
File name:  MOCHA_CB_PSS_1_117_IG.PDF
 
Revisions were also made to the User and Technical Manuals for the 
Outpatient Medications, Inpatient Medications, and Pharmacy Data 
Management packages.
    
Documentation may also be retrieved from the Vista Documentation Library 
(VDL) at the following address:  http://www.va.gov/vdl 
 
MANDATE
Sites are required to install all patches as scheduled by the MOCHA 
Implementation Team.  
 
COMPLIANCE DATE
September 15, 2011
 
INSTALLATION
The installation instructions are included in the Installation Guides.
 
If your site is experiencing problems associated with this installation 
please send a message to the MOCHA Implementation team mail group on 
Outlook:  MOCHA V 1.0 Implementation or file a Remedy Ticket or call the 
National Help Desk (NHD) at 1-888-596-HELP (4357).  Issues may also be 
discussed on the CPRS/PRE Active Monitoring Conference Calls.
 
Any changes/impacts to this package will be reported on the FORUM release 
message.
