Subj: Release Announcment: Pharmacy Product System - National v1.0  [#57126]
31 Jan 2013 11:41:46 -0500 (EST)  104 lines
From: <VECE.VIRGINIA@FORUM.VA.GOV>  In 'FOIA' basket.   Page 1
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
To:     G.IRM CHIEFS (NATIONAL) & STAFF
        G.SITEMANAGERSNATIONAL
        G.PATCH
        G.SSA
        G.CSPROVSYS
        G.PHARMACY ADPACS
        G.CSHDSYS
        G.CLIN APP COORDINATORS
 
 
From:  Clinical 1 Team, Clinical Product Support
 
Release Information:
We are pleased to announce the release of the Pharmacy Product System - 
National (PPS-N) v1.0. The purpose of this software product release is to 
ease the workflow process for managing the National Drug File.
 
PPS-N is a Java 2 Enterprise Edition (J2EE) application used to manage 
the VA National Drug File by adding, inactivating and modifying 
medication elements, National Drug Codes (NDCs), Ingredients, and Drug 
Classes.  It integrates with the National Drug File Management System, 
the Veterans Enterprise Terminology System, the First Data Bank's Drug 
Information Framework (FDB-DIF), and the Federal Supply Schedule to 
support the management of the National Drug File.
The PPS-N application, through a web-based Graphical User Interface 
(GUI), allows the National Drug File managers to manage the National Drug 
File.  It also allows VHA pharmacists and clinicians to access the system 
to perform a variety of operations including lookups of NDF Data, perform 
second approvals of pending medications and changes,  manage preferences, 
and search the FDB-DIF repository, controlling access through a role 
based authorization.
 
Users requiring access to PPS-N will need to be assigned the appropriate 
role through the assignment of security keys. Additional approval by the 
National Drug File managers is required within the PPS-N application for 
any access assignment above the Viewer role.  Please see the PPS-N v1.0 
User Guide for additional information.
 
In summary, the PPS-N application is accessible only by users signed 
directly into the VA network, or by users signed into the VA network via 
the RESCUE client. Authorization is handled through the use of specific 
VistA security keys. PPS-N doesn't assign individual permissions to 
users. Instead, it defines a number of roles for its users (manager, 
supervisor, second approver, viewer and migrator) and associates a set of 
permissions with each of them. These roles are mapped to security keys as 
defined in the User Guide.
 
During the course of the deployment, the Pharmacy Reengineering team will 
address Remedy Tickets logged for issues involving the PPS-N product. You 
may call the VA Service Desk (VASD) at 1-888-596-HELP (4357) and a 
specialist will file a ticket on your behalf.  Thirty days following 
deployment, the Clinical Product Support Team (CLIN1) will provide Tier 2 
product support and the Enterprise Application Maintenance Team (EAM) 
will provide Tier 3 product support. Operational support will be provided 
by Austin Information Technology Center (AITC) and Regional Field 
Operations staff.
 
SOFTWARE RETRIEVAL
The PPS-N application resides on a centralized server at the Austin 
Information Technology Center (AITC). The exact timing of events will be 
coordinated by the System Design & Engineering (SDE) Implementation 
Manager with a release schedule of PPS-N v1.0 deployment to production of 
1/25/2013.
 
No action is required by local staff in support of this release.
 
DOCUMENTATION RETRIEVAL
 
 (1) The preferred method is to FTP the files from 
download.vista.med.va.gov, which will transmit the files from the first 
available FTP server.
  
 2. Sites may also elect to retrieve documentation directly from a
    specific server as follows:
  
    Albany               ftp.fo-albany.med.va.gov
    Hines                ftp.fo-hines.med.va.gov
    Salt Lake City       ftp.fo-slc.med.va.gov
  
 3. Documentation may also be retrieved from VISTA Documentation Library
    (VDL) on the Internet at the following address, http://www.va.gov/vdl.
  
   The documentation distribution includes:
  
   FILE NAME                              DESCRIPTION
 
   PREN_1_IG.PDF            Pharmacy Product System-National (PPS-N)
                            Installation Guide
  
   PREN_1_TG.PDF            PHARMACY PRODUCT SYSTEM-NATIONAL (PPS-N)
                            Troubleshooting Guide
  
   PREN_1_UM.PDF            Pharmacy Product System-National (PPS-N) User
                            Guide   
   
 
COMPLIANCE DATE
An Informational Patch (PREN*1*1) was released for PPS-N v1.0.  This is 
an informational patch only and requires no installation or action at the 
local site.
 
INSTALLATION
This is a Web Application JAVA Build. This is a Centralized Server
Promotion that requires NO installation at local sites.
